# Defense-vs-Position

Like millions of Americans, I'm a massive fantasy football fan. I've been playing in the same highly competitive home league with my friends for over 6 years. Due to the competitive nature of my home league, and due to my interest in data analysis and advanced analytics, I decided to create a program that scrapes fantasy football data from ProFootballReference.com to help me make smarter, data driven decisions when it comes to building my lineups each week. 

Over at ProFootballRefernce (PFR), they have a fantasy football section with tons of great data. In particular, PFR has a section with statistics on all 32 NFL defenses and how they stacked up against each offensive skill position (QB, RB, WR, TE) throughout the season. While PFR does a great job collecting this data and displaying it in a table format for each position, I thought it would be much more helpful and efficient from an analysis point of view, if I could join these tables together and display the relevant defensive vs position statistics and rankings in one table.

So that is what I did. With the help of Python and Excel's Power Query, I was able to create ONE table that tells you how many fantasy points and fantasy points per game all 32 NFL defenses have given up to each offensive skill position throughout the season and how they rank. Now, whenever I'm uncertain about any two players to start one week, I can consult this table to see which player has the more favorable matchup and makes the most sense.
